Nagumo's First Air Fleet has been at sea since November
26,1941.  On the 3rd of December, Nagumo refueled and
the point of no return had been reached.  Kido Butai
was committed to the attack...the time for negotiations
had passed. On December 4, the first of the invasion
fleets sortied and sailed toward their objectives. By 
now, December 7, the first of two waves of strike 
aircraft should be approaching their target, Pearl Harbor.
All there is left to do now is wait...

As supreme commander of Japan's war machine, you must
seize the "Southern Resources Area" and secure for us the 
raw materials we require to pursue our destiny as the
leading Asian nation within the "Greater East Asia
Co-Prosperity Sphere."

Further, you are required to establish a defensive
perimeter of bases with which to repulse any attempt by
the West to reclaim what is rightfully ours.  While doing
so, crush all opposition.  We must be in a position of
strength to withstand the weight of Western industrial
might sure to be brought to bear once the enemy have
recovered from our initial blows.  We must make this
conflict cost prohibitive for the morally weak West and
force the Allied nations to sue for peace, accepting our
territorial gains and our rise as a world power.

Glory for his Majesty the Emperor and victory for the
Empire of the Sun!

 Banzai!  Banzai!  Banzai!


(Designer's note:  Production is 'on' for this scenario) 



