The Japanese victory over Russia in 1905 established Japan
as one of the world's great powers.  By 1910, Japan had
annexed Korea as part of the growing Japanese Empire. The
revolution in China that established a new Republic there
offered Japan the opportunity to further enhance her
military and economic influence in the region.  Japanese
imperialism was on the rise.

By 1931, China was becoming unified under the Nationalists
led by Chiang Kai-Shek, with only a small portion of
southeastern China dominated by Mao Tse-tung's communists.
This unification process was alarming to Japan, and a
Chinese boycott of Japanese trade led to conflict between
the two great asian powers, with Manchuria being annexed
by Japan as a condition for peace.

In 1937, however, Chiang and Mao agreed to end the civil
war which had been raging during this period of
unification and began to resist Japanese aggression and
dominance in China. Japan recognized that it had failed
to keep China weak and under foot and opted for war once
again. In July, Japan instigated the "China Incident" 
between Chinese and Japanese troops at the Marco Polo
bridge near Peking and a full blown invasion of China
ensued with the conflict lasting through to the end of
the Second World War.

International pressure for Japan to cease it's aggression
in Asia led to a complete trade embargo by the United
States in July 1941.  Japanese militarists, although
having infuenced policy throughout the thirties, were
officially in power by October with Gen Hideki Tojo
becoming Prime Minister. The Emperor failed to use his
absolute authority to keep the militarists in check.
Events were coming to a head and the need for Japan to
achieve economic independence from foreign resources
decided the issue.  Japan would seize the "Southern
Resources Area", long held by Great Britain and The
Netherlands, and not even the American President's
warnings would halt their plans for the future.

The seeds of Dec 7th, 1941 were sown.
